tils/002.offline-ruby-gems-documentation/offline-ruby-gems-documentation.mdx, before:

---
slug: offline-ruby-gems-documention
title: Offline Ruby Gems Documentation
author: Muhammad Ebeid
description: Browse installed ruby gems documentation with gem server
date: "2020-09-16T16:08:48.068Z"
tags:
  - ri
  - Ruby
  - Documentations
  - RubyGems
---

RDoc and ri tools can be extremely useful if you have a slow internet
connection, and need to consult the docs for Ruby Core or any other ruby gems.

<br />

If you are using gem command to install ruby gems, it generates Ruby Docs for
the installed gems.

<br />

RDoc and ri are useful tools to create/generate/view documentation for
ruby-core and installed ruby gems. I like them because they allow you to read
the docs without leaving your editor and interrupting your workflow.

<br />

To use it, just pass the class or method that you searching for:

```bash
ri ActiveRecord::Base
ri ActiveRecord::Base.save
```

<br />

Quoted from ri docs:
> A '.' matches either class or instance methods, while #method matches only
instance and ::method matches only class methods.

<br />

If you don't enjoy reading the docs from the terminal, RubyGems got your back!

[RubyGems](https://guides.rubygems.org/) when installed ships with `gem
server` command. This will serve all installed gems in your system. You can
then search for any gem and browse their docs in the browser.

```bash
~ gem server
Server started at http://0.0.0.0:8808
```

Enjoy your local docs ;)

<br />

## Resources:
- [RDoc | GitHub](https://github.com/ruby/rdoc)
- [Gem Server | RubyGems](https://guides.rubygems.org/run-your-own-gem-server/)
- [5 Reasons You Should Use ri To Read Ruby Documentation](https://www.jstorimer.com/blogs/workingwithcode/7766081-5-reasons-you-should-use-ri-to-read-ruby-documentation)

Commit message:

add note on ri docs when using RVM

tils/002.offline-ruby-gems-documentation/offline-ruby-gems-documentation.mdx, after:

---
slug: offline-ruby-gems-documention
title: Offline Ruby Gems Documentation
author: Muhammad Ebeid
description: Browse installed ruby gems documentation with gem server
date: "2020-09-16T16:08:48.068Z"
tags:
  - ri
  - Ruby
  - Documentations
  - RubyGems
---

RDoc and ri tools can be extremely useful if you have a slow internet
connection, and need to consult the docs for Ruby Core or any other ruby gems.

<br />

If you are using gem command to install ruby gems, it generates Ruby Docs for
the installed gems.

Note that if you are using RVM, it does not automatically generate each Ruby's
ri/rdoc documentation. You can generate core Ruby docs using the this command: 

`rvm docs generate`

<br />

RDoc and ri are useful tools to create/generate/view documentation for
ruby-core and installed ruby gems. I like them because they allow you to read
the docs without leaving your editor and interrupting your workflow.

<br />

To use it, just pass the class or method that you searching for:

```bash
ri ActiveRecord::Base
ri ActiveRecord::Base.save
```

<br />

Quoted from ri docs:
> A '.' matches either class or instance methods, while #method matches only
instance and ::method matches only class methods.

<br />

If you don't enjoy reading the docs from the terminal, RubyGems got your back!

[RubyGems](https://guides.rubygems.org/) when installed ships with `gem
server` command. This will serve all installed gems in your system. You can
then search for any gem and browse their docs in the browser.

```bash
~ gem server
Server started at http://0.0.0.0:8808
```

Enjoy your local docs ;)

<br />

## Resources:
- [RDoc | GitHub](https://github.com/ruby/rdoc)
- [Gem Server | RubyGems](https://guides.rubygems.org/run-your-own-gem-server/)
- [5 Reasons You Should Use ri To Read Ruby Documentation](https://www.jstorimer.com/blogs/workingwithcode/7766081-5-reasons-you-should-use-ri-to-read-ruby-documentation)
